README.md, before:

# Carson's Village
## Project Background and Introduction

Carson's Village, inspired by Jason Dyke's personal tragedy, emerged to address the death of support for grieving families. Established as an innovative bereavement program, it offers comprehensive aid to families navigating loss. In 2023, it served 2,200 families nationwide, providing resources, advice, and practical assistance without financial obligations.

Our project at UTD EPICS aims to enhance Carson's Village services by developing an Automated Family Page, streamlining the process of creating tribute pages for deceased family members. By automating this aspect, the project seeks to alleviate the burden on both Advocates and grieving families during an already stressful period. The primary objectives include updating the page based on user feedback, integrating a reporting tool for increased functionality, and implementing iterative UI/UX improvements to enhance user experience.

Admin:
 - Primarily 
 - Collaborate with project team to ensure the efficacy of the Automated Family
Page

Advocates: 
 - Facilitate the creation of Automated Family Pages.
 - Provide support and guidance to families throughout the mourning process.
 - Utilize the reporting tool to gather feedback and improve services.

Families
 - Engage with Advocates to navigate the grieving process.
 - Provide necessary information and content for the Automated Family Page.
 - Access resources and support provided by Carson's Village.
 - Offer feedback on the Automated Family Page for further enhancement. 

## Functional Requirments:
 Pages:
 - Primarily 
 - Collaborate with project team to ensure the efficacy of the Automated Family
   
New Page: 
 - Facilitate the creation of Automated Family Pages.
 - Provide support and guidance to families throughout the mourning process.
 - Utilize the reporting tool to gather feedback and improve services.

Users:
 - Engage with Advocates to navigate the grieving process.
 - Provide necessary information and content for the Automated Family Page.
 - Access resources and support provided by Carson's Village.
 - Offer feedback on the Automated Family Page for further enhancement.

Invite User:
 - Allow for new User's to be invited given user email, name and phone number.
 -  Additional functionality includes defining new user role as family, advocate or admin.

Create Family:
  - Allow for new Family to be created given family name, email, name and phone number.

Home:
 - Home page offers information on the admin that is logged in including name, email and phone number.

Donations:
 - Monitor and Manage Donation to track and oversee all family page-specific donations
 - Update and Record transactions to keep accurate records of all transactions, including donations received, distributed funds, and remaining balances.
 - Access comprehensive reports to have detailed reports on donation statuses, distribution history, and financial summaries.

Family Reports:
- Report Customization to adjust visible fields to customize reports, toggle page statuses for updates and to manage financial tracking with detailed information on donation goals and payments.
 - Advocate Support Tracking to monitor assignments of advocates to fabiliy pages ensuring personalized support is consistently provided to help families meet the funding objectives.
 - Document Handling to easily download or archive reports to streamline management of financial records.
 
## Nuxt 3 Minimal Starter
 
Look at the [Nuxt 3 documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/introduction) to learn more.

## Dependency Software to Install
Nodejs, Docker, IDE with command line, Git, WSL2 (windows only)
* Note: Docker will ask you to create an account for Docker, which is not required for most development. Don't make the account unless you like having your data harvested.



## Setup

Clone repsitory 

Copy .env into root or fill out new keys from .env.example

Need Private keys for 
 - Stripe
 - AWS
 - Auth0
 - Constant Contacts
 Need 
 - email source for AWS SES
 - S3 bucket URL
 - Auth0 Issuer URL

Install the dependencies:

Ideally use npm
```bash
# npm
npm install 

# yarn
yarn install 

# pnpm
pnpm install --shamefully-hoist
```

## Run Docker 
Start Docker Desktop
Change the director to prisma/local
Run docker compose
```bash
cd prisma/local
docker-compose up
```

## Initialize Database

Initialize Postgres DB via
```bash
npx prisma generate
```
Add first user with prisma studio with valid email that you can use
```bash
npx prisma studio
```
And add email and user role as admin for maximium privilege
And optionally add
    - First name
    - Last namme
    - Middle name
    - Phone number
or 

Add first user via Postgres CLI
Enter Postgres CLI
``` bash
docker exec -it local-db-1 psql -U postgres
```
Enter first user with your email set to a usable email
``` bash
 insert into user_accounts(cuid, email, first_name, last_name, user_role) values ('your_name', 'your_email', 'your_first_name', 'your_last_name','admin')
```

## Development Server

Start the development server on http://localhost:3000

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Production

Build the application for production:

```bash
npm run build
```

Locally preview production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

Check out the [deployment documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/deployment) for more information.

## Interacting with site

Log in via the 'Login' button and use Auth0 with the previously entered email

## docker-compose.yml location
The docker-compose file is located in /prisma/local for local development

## Schema location
The schema is in prisma and is in /prisma

## UI Mockups Folder
The ui mockups are located in /figma

## Workflow diagrams
The workflow diagrams are located in /flowcharts

## Notes for the langauges of the tech stack
Notes on the current tech are located in /notes

## Current Deployment Scheme
The main and stage branches automatically deploys to pages.carsonsvillage.org  and pages-staged.carsonsvillage.org respectively via an AWS EC2 instance built via GitHub actions for testing.
The deployment scripts are in /.github/workflows.

# Migration Scripts
None
Carsonsvillage.org, the previous solution, is not ever green so the data will start from scratch
on future Carson's Village's usage of this project.

# Conceptual Overview

This system is focused around advocates, families, and pages. Advocates invite families and guide them through the process of creating a memorial page. These pages contain obituaries, times, and locations. These pages are publicly viewable and searchable. Pages can receive donations, have donation goals, and have deadlines for fundraising. Family users can only access the system after being invited by an advocate. Family users have profiles. Admin distributes donations to families.

# Functional Requirements

## Edit Page
 - Logged in users can create pages with the following properties filled in:
  - Name
  - Day of birth (optional)
  - Day of passing (optional)
  - Visitation (optional)
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Funeral (optional)
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Obituary
  - Donation goal (optional)
  - Deadline (optional)
  - Images (optional)
   - Images can be added
    - one by one
    - multiple at a time
   - Viewable via image preview feature
   - Images can be deleted one by one
   - User can select profile picture

## Users

- There are three roles: family, dvocate, admin
- Users are invite only, regardless of roles
- Admin(s) are entered through CLI only
- Admins can do what advocates can do and only admins can
  - Distribute Donations via Stripe
- Only advocates can
  - Toggle Page active/inactive status
  - Invite users
  - See a list of all pages
  - See a list of all users
  - See Family Reports
  - Change the role of a user
- All logged in users can
  - Edit a page
  - See a list of their own pages
- Only Family Users need to do onboarding for using a connected account via Stripe Connect
- Users are authenticated via Auth0
- Users receive invitation emails via AWS SES

## Family Pages

- All pages can be viewed publicly
- Pages must be publicly searchable
- Pages have
  - Name
  - Day of birth
  - Day of passing
  - Visitation
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Funeral
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Obituary
  - Donation goal
  - Amount donated
  - Deadline
  - Images
  - Donations
    - Processed through stripe
  - Donation comments associated to a donation
  - Page Replies not associated to a donation
  - Page sharing links to
    - Facebook
    - X (formally known as Twitter)
    - Mail Application

## Family Report Page
  - Family Reports can be viewed by Advocates and Admin(s)
  - Family Report can be downloaded to CSV
  - Family Report columns are 
    - Page name
    - Advocate Responsible name
    - Donation Performance metrics
        - Duration
        - Donation Status
        - Goal Met Date
    - Donation Payout Metrics
        - Owed / Goal Percentage
        - Amount Owed
        - Amount Paid
        - Amount Raised
    - Start Date
    - Donation Goal

## Donation Managment Page
  - Donation Managment page can only be viewed by an Admin
  - Admin can distribute donations to a family page or family
  - Admin can view family and page's 
    - total amount raised
    - total amount distributed
    - total amount left to distribute
  - Admin can view all of family's donations

## Family Creation Page
  - Admin and Advocate can create family and the first user
  - First user is invited via AWS SES

## User Invite Page
   - Admin and Advocate can create a user with the following properties
     - Role (advocate or family)
     - Select Family via listbox for family role 
     - First Name
     - Middle Name
     - Last name
     - Phone number

## Home 
 - Every Logged in user can view their
    - First, middle, last name
    - Role
    - Phone number

## Page List
  - Advocates can view all pages of families they are responsible for
  - Advocates can select family to view pages for
  - Families can view all of their pages
  - Page list shows 
   - Page name
   - Donation Deadline
   - link to edit
   - link to view
   - Only admin and advocates can view user cuid of page creator
   - Show up to 12 family pages per page 

## User List 
  - Advocates and Admins can view all users
  - User List shows 
    - User name
    - User email
    - User id
    - User Family name for family members
    - User role
    - Link to user page list of pages they created
    - Show up to 12 Users per page

## Search Page
  - Show up to 12 results of pages searched per page
  - Search by matching any character of page name
  - Show all pages with empty query

## Stack
Nuxt, postgres, prisma

## Research Questions
None

## Third party integrations

- Stripe for payments and donation payouts
- Auth0 for authentication
- AWS SES for emails

## Deployment

AWS EC2

Commit message:

updated readme to desribe email list page

README.md, after:

# Carson's Village
## Project Background and Introduction

Carson's Village, inspired by Jason Dyke's personal tragedy, emerged to address the death of support for grieving families. Established as an innovative bereavement program, it offers comprehensive aid to families navigating loss. In 2023, it served 2,200 families nationwide, providing resources, advice, and practical assistance without financial obligations.

Our project at UTD EPICS aims to enhance Carson's Village services by developing an Automated Family Page, streamlining the process of creating tribute pages for deceased family members. By automating this aspect, the project seeks to alleviate the burden on both Advocates and grieving families during an already stressful period. The primary objectives include updating the page based on user feedback, integrating a reporting tool for increased functionality, and implementing iterative UI/UX improvements to enhance user experience.

Admin:
 - Primarily 
 - Collaborate with project team to ensure the efficacy of the Automated Family
Page

Advocates: 
 - Facilitate the creation of Automated Family Pages.
 - Provide support and guidance to families throughout the mourning process.
 - Utilize the reporting tool to gather feedback and improve services.

Families
 - Engage with Advocates to navigate the grieving process.
 - Provide necessary information and content for the Automated Family Page.
 - Access resources and support provided by Carson's Village.
 - Offer feedback on the Automated Family Page for further enhancement. 

## Functional Requirments:
 Pages:
 - Primarily 
 - Collaborate with project team to ensure the efficacy of the Automated Family
   
New Page: 
 - Facilitate the creation of Automated Family Pages.
 - Provide support and guidance to families throughout the mourning process.
 - Utilize the reporting tool to gather feedback and improve services.

Users:
 - Engage with Advocates to navigate the grieving process.
 - Provide necessary information and content for the Automated Family Page.
 - Access resources and support provided by Carson's Village.
 - Offer feedback on the Automated Family Page for further enhancement.

Invite User:
 - Allow for new User's to be invited given user email, name and phone number.
 -  Additional functionality includes defining new user role as family, advocate or admin.

Create Family:
  - Allow for new Family to be created given family name, email, name and phone number.

Home:
 - Home page offers information on the admin that is logged in including name, email and phone number.

Donations:
 - Monitor and Manage Donation to track and oversee all family page-specific donations
 - Update and Record transactions to keep accurate records of all transactions, including donations received, distributed funds, and remaining balances.
 - Access comprehensive reports to have detailed reports on donation statuses, distribution history, and financial summaries.

Family Reports:
- Report Customization to adjust visible fields to customize reports, toggle page statuses for updates and to manage financial tracking with detailed information on donation goals and payments.
 - Advocate Support Tracking to monitor assignments of advocates to fabiliy pages ensuring personalized support is consistently provided to help families meet the funding objectives.
 - Document Handling to easily download or archive reports to streamline management of financial records.
 
## Nuxt 3 Minimal Starter
 
Look at the [Nuxt 3 documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/introduction) to learn more.

## Dependency Software to Install
Nodejs, Docker, IDE with command line, Git, WSL2 (windows only)
* Note: Docker will ask you to create an account for Docker, which is not required for most development. Don't make the account unless you like having your data harvested.



## Setup

Clone repsitory 

Copy .env into root or fill out new keys from .env.example

Need Private keys for 
 - Stripe
 - AWS
 - Auth0
 - Constant Contacts
 Need 
 - email source for AWS SES
 - S3 bucket URL
 - Auth0 Issuer URL

Install the dependencies:

Ideally use npm
```bash
# npm
npm install 

# yarn
yarn install 

# pnpm
pnpm install --shamefully-hoist
```

## Run Docker 
Start Docker Desktop
Change the director to prisma/local
Run docker compose
```bash
cd prisma/local
docker-compose up
```

## Initialize Database

Initialize Postgres DB via
```bash
npx prisma generate
```
Add first user with prisma studio with valid email that you can use
```bash
npx prisma studio
```
And add email and user role as admin for maximium privilege
And optionally add
    - First name
    - Last namme
    - Middle name
    - Phone number
or 

Add first user via Postgres CLI
Enter Postgres CLI
``` bash
docker exec -it local-db-1 psql -U postgres
```
Enter first user with your email set to a usable email
``` bash
 insert into user_accounts(cuid, email, first_name, last_name, user_role) values ('your_name', 'your_email', 'your_first_name', 'your_last_name','admin')
```

## Development Server

Start the development server on http://localhost:3000

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Production

Build the application for production:

```bash
npm run build
```

Locally preview production build:

```bash
npm run preview
```

Check out the [deployment documentation](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/deployment) for more information.

## Interacting with site

Log in via the 'Login' button and use Auth0 with the previously entered email

## docker-compose.yml location
The docker-compose file is located in /prisma/local for local development

## Schema location
The schema is in prisma and is in /prisma

## UI Mockups Folder
The ui mockups are located in /figma

## Workflow diagrams
The workflow diagrams are located in /flowcharts

## Notes for the langauges of the tech stack
Notes on the current tech are located in /notes

## Current Deployment Scheme
The main and stage branches automatically deploys to pages.carsonsvillage.org  and pages-staged.carsonsvillage.org respectively via an AWS EC2 instance built via GitHub actions for testing.
The deployment scripts are in /.github/workflows.

# Migration Scripts
None
Carsonsvillage.org, the previous solution, is not ever green so the data will start from scratch
on future Carson's Village's usage of this project.

# Conceptual Overview

This system is focused around advocates, families, and pages. Advocates invite families and guide them through the process of creating a memorial page. These pages contain obituaries, times, and locations. These pages are publicly viewable and searchable. Pages can receive donations, have donation goals, and have deadlines for fundraising. Family users can only access the system after being invited by an advocate. Family users have profiles. Admin distributes donations to families.

# Functional Requirements

## Email List
  - Authorize token button which initiates initial integration
  - Refresh token button which adds new token to database if expired
  - Shows success message when either operation is completed
  - Constant Contacts is used to connect to Carson's Village email list database

## Edit Page
 - Logged in users can create pages with the following properties filled in:
  - Name
  - Day of birth (optional)
  - Day of passing (optional)
  - Visitation (optional)
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Funeral (optional)
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Obituary
  - Donation goal (optional)
  - Deadline (optional)
  - Images (optional)
   - Images can be added
    - one by one
    - multiple at a time
   - Viewable via image preview feature
   - Images can be deleted one by one
   - User can select profile picture

## Users

- There are three roles: family, dvocate, admin
- Users are invite only, regardless of roles
- Admin(s) are entered through CLI only
- Admins can do what advocates can do and only admins can
  - Distribute Donations via Stripe
- Only advocates can
  - Toggle Page active/inactive status
  - Invite users
  - See a list of all pages
  - See a list of all users
  - See Family Reports
  - Change the role of a user
- All logged in users can
  - Edit a page
  - See a list of their own pages
- Only Family Users need to do onboarding for using a connected account via Stripe Connect
- Users are authenticated via Auth0
- Users receive invitation emails via AWS SES

## Family Pages

- All pages can be viewed publicly
- Pages must be publicly searchable
- Pages have
  - Name
  - Day of birth
  - Day of passing
  - Visitation
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Funeral
    - Date
    - Location
    - Description
  - Obituary
  - Donation goal
  - Amount donated
  - Deadline
  - Images
  - Donations
    - Processed through stripe
  - Donation comments associated to a donation
  - Page Replies not associated to a donation
  - Page sharing links to
    - Facebook
    - X (formally known as Twitter)
    - Mail Application

## Family Report Page
  - Family Reports can be viewed by Advocates and Admin(s)
  - Family Report can be downloaded to CSV
  - Family Report columns are 
    - Page name
    - Advocate Responsible name
    - Donation Performance metrics
        - Duration
        - Donation Status
        - Goal Met Date
    - Donation Payout Metrics
        - Owed / Goal Percentage
        - Amount Owed
        - Amount Paid
        - Amount Raised
    - Start Date
    - Donation Goal

## Donation Managment Page
  - Donation Managment page can only be viewed by an Admin
  - Admin can distribute donations to a family page or family
  - Admin can view family and page's 
    - total amount raised
    - total amount distributed
    - total amount left to distribute
  - Admin can view all of family's donations

## Family Creation Page
  - Admin and Advocate can create family and the first user
  - First user is invited via AWS SES

## User Invite Page
   - Admin and Advocate can create a user with the following properties
     - Role (advocate or family)
     - Select Family via listbox for family role 
     - First Name
     - Middle Name
     - Last name
     - Phone number

## Home 
 - Every Logged in user can view their
    - First, middle, last name
    - Role
    - Phone number

## Page List
  - Advocates can view all pages of families they are responsible for
  - Advocates can select family to view pages for
  - Families can view all of their pages
  - Page list shows 
   - Page name
   - Donation Deadline
   - link to edit
   - link to view
   - Only admin and advocates can view user cuid of page creator
   - Show up to 12 family pages per page 

## User List 
  - Advocates and Admins can view all users
  - User List shows 
    - User name
    - User email
    - User id
    - User Family name for family members
    - User role
    - Link to user page list of pages they created
    - Show up to 12 Users per page

## Search Page
  - Show up to 12 results of pages searched per page
  - Search by matching any character of page name
  - Show all pages with empty query

## Stack
Nuxt, postgres, prisma

## Research Questions
None

## Third party integrations

- Stripe for payments and donation payouts
- Auth0 for authentication
- AWS SES for emails

## Deployment

AWS EC2
